---
layout: post
title:      "The Power of Creation: Coding for a Better Future."
date:       2017-12-24 18:40:21 +0000
permalink:  the_power_of_creation_coding_for_a_better_future
---


Uncle Benjamin Parker said it best  when he said "*With Great Power Comes Great Responsability*. In the five years since I concluded my military service I've often struggled to find meaning and purpose in the endless humdrum replay of life.  You see, from the day of my nineteenth birthday and every day for the next  two decades I woke up every morning knowing that I was making a positive impact on the world through service to my country. I knew exactly where I fit in the great mechanism of life, I had a clearly defined mission, and I gave it all I had...every hour of every day.  People have different reasons for walking away from a lifetime of service.  For me it was a simple decision; my family had been paying a high price for my service for many years and the toll was becoming too great.  I had missed three of my sons first five birthdays and even when I wasn't deployed I was working 13+ hour days.  My children were growing up without a father and my relationship with my wife was nearing a breaking point. It's often said that military service is like a jealous mistress and I can attest to that. What made me decide to pursue a career as a software developer after all these years?  For me, it was more like coming home after being away on a long trip out travelling the world. I've always been a developer; it's who I am.  My first exposure to software development was as a kid in the 80's on my families Commodore 64-C. Back then, I rocked a 14.4 Kbps dial-up modem and saved my programs to a tape drive.  I couldn't wait for the next edition of "Your Commodore" and "Run" magazine so that I could scour the pages for games and programs to write. My senior year of high school two of my six periods were spent as a teachers aid in the computer lab helping other students write programs in BASIC. So here I am, back in the saddle after a short hiatus. My service to my country might be over; but it was but a stepping stone to a greater calling: my service to humanity through code. With code, I can change to world! 
